It's a mental game and when you see your
counterpart smashing up headphones and
landing at cameras, you know that you've
got to
Christian her, the team boss of the
world championship winning team, Red
Bull Racing.
You came into Red Bull when it wasn't
doing great.
When I came into the sport, I was the
youngest team principal in Formula 1. I
still am to this day, ironically. And I
don't have any formal qualifications bar
a couple of A levels. I wanted to make
sure that we were the team on the upward
graft and think, okay, how can we turn
into fertilizer?
You can lose championships as we've
seen.
Yeah.
In seconds.
It felt like it was slipping away and
then suddenly
it was insane. If somebody came up with
a script and said that's the way this
season's going to pan out, nobody would
have believed it.
All that press scrutiny.
Formula 1 is a very glamorous world from
the outside looking in. It can be a
lonely place at at times.
Have you ever had moments of anxiety?
Yeah. It sort of crept up on me without,
you know, recognizing it.
Same.
And it's just your body telling you
that, you know, there's a lot going on
here. And uh for me, you know, I've had
enough.
When you look at your competition, which
has been Mercedes?
Yes. Why do you think your team will
win?
I think that
Before this episode begins, I just want
to say a huge thank you to all of our
new subscribers. 74% of you that watch
this channel didn't subscribe before and
we're now down to about 71%. So that
helps us in a number of ways that are
quite hard to explain, but simply the
bigger the channel gets, the bigger the
guests get. So, if you haven't yet
subscribed to the Diary of a CEO, if I
could have any favors from you, if
you've ever watched this show and
enjoyed it, it's just to please hit the
subscribe button. Without further ado,
I'm Steven Bartlett and this is the
Diary of a CEO. I hope nobody's
listening, but if you are, then please
keep this to yourself.
[Music]
Christian, there's a slight pun, I
guess, to this opening question, but um
as I look back into your early years and
as you look back in hindsight and sort
of self assess,
what drives you?
What drives me? I'm naturally a
competitive person and uh you know, I've
always, you know, enjoyed competition.
I've always enjoyed working, you know,
within a team of people and uh and
winning. you know, winning. There's just
no no feeling like it in uh uh you know,
whether it's achieving a checkered flag
first or sealing a deal to get on a car.
Um you know, that's always what's what's
driven me has always been about the
competition.
In our earliest years, I I think, you
know, this psychology shows that we're
we're formed most definitively by the
things that happen, the context we're
grown up in, older brothers, you know,
the parenting. when you look back and
connect those dots, is there anything
else there that um is important context
to who you are today?
Well, I'm the middle child of of three.
So, my older brother was was the the
sensible one of of the three of of the
three boys. Um and then my younger
brother was more outrageous, I would
say. And and the middle child is always
that slightly awkward one. Um you know,
particularly within within three. So,
um, you know, I wasn't I didn't excel at
school. I wasn't that interested in
school. School for me was almost like a
a social thing, but I enjoyed sport and
I enjoyed team sport at at at school.
So, where my older brother was quite
academic, he was he was crap at sport.
Um, whereas, you know, I played in the
football team or the cricket team or or
whatever was whatever was going. And um
you know I I just enjoyed that. And uh I
think that you know being a being a
middle child um you're always slightly
different. The the the younger ones
always ends up being the spoiled one.
The older one's a sensible one and the
the middle one tends to be in his own
lane for certainly from the the middle
children that I've met.
What did you think you were going to be
when you grew up?
I wanted to be evil conval. You know I
wanted to be a stunt man. Um and then
there was a program um the full guy with
Lee Majors in it who drove around in a
big truck and and so on and I you was a
stunt man and I thought that was super
cool. So I was always fascinated by cars
and speed and and so on. So that
attracted me to um you know just just
the world of of of engines. And from a
very early age uh from about 12 you I
was pestering and pestering my mom
because I knew my father wouldn't uh
wouldn't buy me one to get to buy a
motorized go-kart. And I saved up what I
had. And then for my 12th birthday um we
found this thing in the back of a uh a
newspaper, this secondhand uh sort of
20-year-old go-kart. and it was too low
to drive around a farm or on on the
grass. So, we found a track and suddenly
I discovered this you could race these
things and and suddenly that wetted my
appetite at a very young age. Um, and
you know, Nigel Manel at the time was a
complete hero of mine. I was starting to
get into into Formula 1. So from a very
early age, you know, I became almost
obsessive about wanting to be a a racing
driver to the point that I didn't want
to grow any taller. I got, you know, to
5'7 and thought, "Yeah, you I don't want
to grow any any any taller." I was
almost willing myself to um to to be
short. So So uh because all races
drivers tended to be sort of pintsized
during that that that time. So for me,
that was my dream. I could just
visualize myself being a being a racing
driver and that's you know everything
else became secondary at that point.
What influence did your your mother and
father have separately on you?
They had they had a huge influence on me
both in in in in different ways. My
father worked in the automotive
industry. So he shared a passion for for
cars and engines and and um motor
racing. you know, he was uh he done some
marshalling in his youth and always
liked being around around cars. He
always had, you know, nice cars and and
uh working in that industry. Um yeah, he
was hugely hugely knowledgeable. My
mother, you know, my mother would would
always encourage us to follow our dreams
and she'd always push us as as as
children, never to accept,
you know, just being uh,
you know, run-of-the-mill, always push
yourself, always extend yourself. Um,
and so she had an awful lot of drive,
you know, in her. And so it was a
combination, you know, of the of the
two. So once I discovered this world of
of motor racing at the around the age of
age of 12, you know, my father and I
were able to then, you know, we spent
quite a lot of time together, you know,
traveling the country and then racing
internationally and then into car racing
and so on. And it was a it was a great
thing to be able to, you know, to share
with him. And he, you know, he made a
lot of sacrifices to help me in in my
career. Um, my brothers both had the
chance to to have a go at racing.
neither of them were were, you know,
were interested. Um, and so we spent a
lot of time going up and down the
country to different cart races. My mom
would pack a, you know, pack all the
sandwiches up and, you know, it became a
family thing. Um, going to these
different racing events.
I'm really intrigued by that winning
streak in people and that
competitiveness because not everybody,
and you would have seen this in the
drivers and the people you've worked
with, not everybody has that. They don't
have that like competitive tenacity
where they ju they just have to win.
Yeah.
Where does where does that come from in
you? Have you figured that out? Is it
something which has built over time? Was
there always a bit of a glimmer of that
winning at all costs or
I think it's something that's in in your
DNA. And look, I've got I'm one of three
uh boys in in our family and I'm very
different to my to my brothers and um
you know, I've got the same parents. Uh,
but we're all very different and I think
you either have it, you know, or you or
you don't. And uh, you know, I I always
had this inner drive and and desire. Um,
there was purely focused around, you
know, motor racing. I didn't vis en
envisage myself being a tennis player
or, you know, anything else. I just
wanted to to to race. I just wanted to
compete. And I would watch hours and
hours of video footage on VHS tapes of
old races and Grand Pris and, you know,
study the minutest of details of, you
know, what racing boots Nigel Manel was
wearing or or you you know, you totally
engross yourself in all aspects of it.
And uh and I think visualization is a
big thing as well. So I think if you if
you visualize something and you really
want it, I've found in certainly in my
life that you know that's that's
absolutely achievable because you set
you're setting yourself a target. You're
setting yourself a goal and and that's
what you got to shoot for.
There's a lot of talk around around
visualization. And I think there was a
book that came out called the secret
which um somewhat painted visualization
as a
uh supernatural force in the world that
kind of conspires to give you what you
want. When you talk about visualization,
do you see it as a supernatural force or
do you see it as much more of a
practical satellite navigation of
I think I think you could see it as both
in many respects. uh uh you know, I'm
probably more practical in my in my
thinking, so I'm not engaged with the
supernatural. Uh but but yeah, I'm a
great believer that if you visualize
something, if you see yourself being on
that podium and you believe in it and
you want it and you really strive for
it, you can you can achieve it. And I
didn't achieve it as a driver, but I
went on to achieve it as a uh you know,
as a team principal. and um uh you know
and whether that's winning a Grand Prix
or winning a world championship
um winning a constructor's world
championship it's it's having that
belief have never losing sight of that
that goal because that's what takes you
through the you know the tough days the
difficult days um when everything seems
to be conspiring against you that you've
got to keep believing in that target and
visualizing that that target um And I
would say by and large during my career
that's that's that's come true.
You you talked about your kind of
obsessive um focus on the details. Even
looking at a very young age looking at
these cassettes and seeing what boots
they were wearing.
That obsession as well that that
obsession on the smallest of details.
How has that played a role in everything
that happened throughout the the next
couple of decades of your life?
I think it's it's just a question of
leaving no stone unturned. just always
pursuing all the incremental areas
because they all they all add up and
it's all about attention to details and
sometimes it's the smallest things that
can make the largest of difference and
you you collectively add all of those
elements together
um and they add up at the end of the
day. So um you know particularly in the
business that I'm operating in in
Formula 1, it is all about the detail.
It is all about leaving no stone
unturned, about pushing the boundaries,
about extracting every ounce of
performance out of these amazing
machines, which ultimately um it's the
people that drive that. And so it's
therefore creating a culture that
empowers that that um uh that essence of
of it never being enough, always
striving to achieve more. And uh and
then it's almost the fear of failure.
that uh that drives you on because once
you've sampled and you've tasted
success, it becomes addictive like a
drug and and you just want to experience
it again and you know have that have
that winning feeling.
It's interesting. So let's start with
the culture piece then with the team. So
you said it's about creating that
culture, a culture where every detail
matters in a practical way. There'll be
loads of people listening to this
podcast now that are building projects
or businesses or they might have a dance
class, whatever they're doing. um how do
they practically
make those around them really appreciate
the small stuff?
Well, I think you have to lead by
example and I think that uh you know
it's all about um uh
you know just continually looking to to
improve to be better. So for example the
races that we win you know you can
always learn it's never ever enough. Um,
you know, the last race we won in in
Monza, could we have done a better job
on the strategy? Could we have been
quicker in the pit stop? Um, could we
have had a better start? Was our
preparation in the leadup to the race,
you know, good enough? Did we focus
enough attention in the practice
sessions on the things that that turned
out to be important in in the Grand
Prix? So being selfanalytical and is is
a key aspect of driving of driving
performance and never being satisfied
saying yeah no that was good enough
because it it never is. There's always
something that you can learn that you
can uh that you can improve and that you
can build on as you're building this
database of continual knowledge.
Does that change how you choose people
to join the team? Are you looking for
people that have a predisposition to
care about the small stuff or that have
are detail orientated?
Well, I think you need uh you know
within a team you need different
strengths for different roles. And so
when you within Formula 1, you've got
obviously the design side of the of of
the business, the creative side of the
business. You've got the operational
side where you got to manufacture these
these incredible cars and then operate
them cost effectively at 22 Grand Pris
around around the globe. And so you need
need different people for different
roles, but it's all having that
commonality of which is the car, which
is, you know, these two amazing machines
that we have to turn out at these 22
races a year and to operate at their at
their optimum. And that is the focal
point, you know, that everybody's uh,
you know, vested interest is is involved
in. So you've got to have uh, you know,
an eclectic mix of people that that
create a team. But so long as the goal
that everybody is reaching for and
striving for is the same,
you know, you're going to have a a
myriad of different personalities. I
mean, we're we're circus sort of 7 to
800 people uh you know, in our team.
Plus then on top of that, we've got an
engine group that we're we're building
as well. to over a thousand people on
one campus in Milton Kees and uh of
course you're going to get a vast range
of of personalities and characters but
the one thing in common is it's all
about the car. It's all about performing
on the track.
How does one keep how is that 22
different departments as well?
Yeah. So it's a 22 different departments
across across the business and it for me
um it's about getting the right people
in the right roles and empowering them
to do their job so that they've got
clear you know objectives clear targets
that they've that they're you know that
they're shooting for and then backing
them. So I see a lot of my role is to
ensure that they've got the support
around them, they've got the tools
around them, that uh that they're
defended when they need defending um and
that they're guided when they need that
that when they need guidance. And I
think that there's no point you I'm not
an aerodynamicist or an engineer or I
don't have any formal, you know,
qualifications bar a couple of A levels.
Um so I'm not a specialist in any any
one area. So my role is to ensure that
I'm putting the right people in the
right roles and getting them
collectively to work together.
Feel like that is the that is the
ultimate goal of business. It's funny
because as as entrepreneurs sometimes we
think that we should be good at
everything or that we should um we
should know how to do every job better
than the person you know within within
that team. But what you said there I
think is was very very very true in the
sense of it's finding the right people
and binding them with a culture that
gets the best out of them which is not
an easy thing to do.
It's not because you know there's
a lot of pride people have egos as as
well but I think it's accepting where
your strengths and where your weaknesses
are. And I think that that uh not
everybody can be a phenomenal
aerodynamicist or a you know engineer or
a chassis designer or uh you know a
number one mechanic. Um and it's a
matter of identifying you know the right
people for the right roles and then and
empowering them to get on their job.
There's no point me employing Adrien Nui
as, you know, probably the best
aerodynamicist in the in the history of
the sport and then telling him, you
know, how to do his job or telling Max
Fappen how to how to drive a car. You
know, you can point out things that
you're seeing. Um and and and you can uh
you know offer some some guidance but in
terms of it's down to them in their
specialist areas to you know to to
operate and you try and give them the
right tools and the right environment
that enables them to flourish and
succeed.
Have you had instances in your career
where you've hired a very talented
And what I mean by that is
someone who's so good at their job but
ego personality something has just
well Formula 1 attracts them and um and
egos and are not too far apart
sometimes. Um, so but you know you
there's no I in team and I think that
you quickly you see um if you have a
talented individual that isn't working
in a team environment they quickly
become isolated
um and they either change their way and
and embrace the team or they end up
falling by the wayside and not achieving
their you know their potential because
it's too bigger sport to be um you know
an individualist in in it. You need to
rely and trust in the other people
around you and the other departments
around you to be able to fulfill your
your part.
Much of much of management um I think
starts with knowing how to manage
yourself because if you if you don't
manage yourself successfully then you
can be a pretty awful manager.
Yeah. How how you talked about the self
analys self analyzing the team after
races, but do you self analyze yourself?
Yeah, of course. I mean, you're always
thinking, you know, what what could I do
better? You know, how could I how could
I perform better as a CEO or as a team
principal? Um, did I handle that
situation correctly? Could, you know, is
there another way that we could have
addressed that? And I think that what
I've learned over time is that I used
to, you know, when I first came into the
sport, I'd worry about almost
everything. And I quickly came to the
conclusion, well, there's no point in
worrying about everything. Worry about
the things you can control, the things
that you can't control.
Don't let them take your energy. Don't
let them take your, you know, your your
focus or distract you. focus on the
things that that you're empowered that
to make a difference in. Um, and then I
just I I'm able to I was able to become
more disciplined with my time and
implying my time more uh more
effectively than being spread too thin.
Emotional control. In sports, it's very
passionate.
Yeah,
there's a fine line, isn't there? From
what I've observed with some of the
great, you know, managers in the world
like Sir Alex Ferguson and football
stars and between like the passion and
letting the passion get out of hand.
Yeah, absolutely.
Anger and, you know, how do you balance
that and is it a balancing act?
Well, I think I think the Brits are
quite good at that, you know, keeping a
stiff upper lip and, you know, head
down, get on with it. And for me,
you know, last year's World Championship
was very much about that. And um you you
could see I mean it was a titanic battle
not just between the two drivers on
track but by you know the two teams off
track and the person you're gauging
yourself uh and you're pitched against
as a team principal is is your opposite
number and it's a mental game as much as
a a physical uh activity as well. And of
course it was the first time that that
that team in the seven eight year period
had come under under any form of
pressure. And I think you see people's
true personalities and what they've
really got when they're under pressure.
So, of course, you know, when you see
your counterpart smashing up headphones
and pointing and ranting at cameras, you
know that you've got to them because
then you know that if they're venting in
such a way and they're feeling that
pressure that the people beneath them
are going to be offloaded onto as well,
that they're going to be on the
receiving end of that. And that, in my
opinion, or in my experience, it caused
people to tighten up. Um, and I remember
before the race in Abu Dhabi getting all
the guys together and saying, "Look,
whatever happens today is going to
happen." Um, you know, all we can do is
do the best that we can do today. And
the most important thing is, you know,
be proud of what you've achieved to get
us to this position that we're fighting
for this world championship. You know,
that we've taken it all the way down to
the wire. And most of all, enjoy it. you
know, enjoy this experience. Whatever
whatever the outcome's going to be, we
don't know, but just let's go in there
with an approach of give it everything
and enjoy it and embrace it. And in the
end, you know, it paid off. And I think
that as a leader, how you conduct
yourself
permeates throughout a business. So if
if you're feeling the tension and you're
passing that on, then for me that's not
a healthy
way to lead a team by fear. Um you want
it to be inclusive. You want it to be
open. You want people to be able to feel
that they can
that they've got a voice and that voice
will be, you know, will be heard rather
than being afraid to speak up for fear
of getting their, you know, their head
taken off. you came into Red Bull when
um it it wasn't doing great as a team
and over the the next five, six, six
years, you really turned that ship
around.
from the outside. I mean, people might
see that as quite a simple thing, but I
was reading about how you
um you'd you'd come to work on your
first day of work, the consultants had
flown over and fired the previous
management team, which is always causes
a little bit of
unease, shall I say,
and then they fly out and leave you
there. And then from there, you've got
450 people in this team that's kind of
dysfunctional. It's not it's not
reaching its potential.
Tell me because there's a lot of I
always think about going into companies
where there's an existing culture and
how you unpick it and turn it around.
Tell me how you did that at Red Bull.
Well, that first day I arrived, I
remember um arriving in uh in the office
with a a secretary that was in tears cuz
her previous boss had been just fired.
Um there was unopened Christmas cards on
the desk, a half drunk cup of coffee,
and okay. and a fairly disgruntled
workforce that had been through a
revolving door of management changes
whilst the team had been uh you know
owned by Jaguar. So um it's like okay
how am I you know what's my game plan
here and my my plan was engage with the
people understand
what are the issues listen you spend you
know the next few months just listening
and form your own picture and so
you know that's what I did over the
first couple of months I spent time
walking around the factory engaging with
people listening
And then the picture started to come
clear that you know there were pockets
within the team that that you know there
was real capability and and talent but
it was just clear that they weren't
working collectively. There was this
blame culture within the business where
the drawing office blamed Arrow Arrow
blamed the wind tunnel. Um you know R&D
blamed production the race team were
blamed everybody. Um and there was just
this blame culture that there was no
accountability or collective you know
responsibility. So it was then a
question of okay how do we unpick that
and how do we create the glue to bring
this this together. And for me what was
really needed was was technical
direction. Um and I thought well look
I'm going to go after the best in the
business. Um and that was Adrienne.
Adrienne had had a incredible career at
Williams and McLaren. Um, and you know,
there'd been,
you know, a couple of years where
McLaren hadn't been delivering at its uh
at its potential and you could see that
business was changing and it just felt
like there was a window of opportunity.
So,
uh, you know, I'm made sure I got to,
uh, to meet Adrian and I built up a
relationship with him and, uh, his then
wife and then managed to convince him to
come and join the team. Um, and that was
a litmus moment because then suddenly
people woke up and said, "Wow, if Adrian
New is prepared to come here, he must
see something that he he believes in."
Um, and uh, you know, we set off set off
from there. And that then, you know, you
know, galvanized the technical care
because Adrian's the most single-minded,
you know, engineer I've ever uh, ever
come across. Um, and you know, that that
galvanized the team because it was,
well, if Adrian says that's the
direction we're going, technically,
that's that's the way we're going. And
um it then put a sense of purpose into
the design office and that enabled me to
attract more talent to supplement what
was there to weed out the few bits that
needed tidying up. But the core basis of
the team
hadn't really changed from what had been
underachieving at Jaguar. We just put in
clear leadership into a into a structure
and started to instill a culture of it's
not just about having the seventh
biggest budget which means you're going
to finish seventh. It's a question of
okay, what can we do? How can we push
the boundaries? How can we be more in
innovative? How can we take the fight to
the guys at the front? Because we're not
prepared to settle, you know, being
seventh. We want to win. how how what is
the fastest route to getting uh into a
winning position?
Okay, so I've got three questions there
that came to mind. The first one was
about single-mindedness
in in business and in leadership.
Sometimes single-mindedness is seen as
being undemocratic and like I think
there's sometimes people think that
organizations are supposed to be like
democratic where everyone gets a vote
and then we decide which direction we're
going in based on the vote. But you've
highlighted single-mindedness in that
instance as being a real unifier and a
real motivator.
Yeah. No, absolutely. And look, you
know, of obviously you want to listen
and you want to gauge, but at the end of
the day, somebody's got to make a
decision. Sometimes that might not be
the most popular of decisions, but the
most important thing is to make a
decision to say this is the direction
that we're going in. And the most
important thing with that once you've
committed to a decision to make sure
that you give it your best shot. But if
it's not working
to recognize that it's not working and
not be afraid to change to stick your
hand up say okay we got it wrong let's
go another route because the worst thing
is just repeating the same mistake after
mistake you know after mistake and I
think you know good leadership um is
strong leadership where
you know people want to know what is the
direction what is the objective why are
we doing this um what are are we pushing
for? What are we striving for? Um and uh
you know it's about taking people on
that on that journey but uh about having
you know very clear goals and objectives
that that taking them on the journey
with you that I guess that's a job of
inspiration and communication.
How how how important is that when
you're trying to get 450 people to come
along with you? really making sure
you've nailed down communication and I
guess inspiring communication and how
has Red Bull done that?
I think Red Bull um you know as a
business a phenomenal business that have
uh you know it's a maverick brand. It's
it's pushed the boundaries and
everything that it does. It's it's a
lifestyle brand. It's um it's always
been edgy, you know, with the extreme
sports that they've been involved in and
and so I'm a bit of a you very much a
maverick. And I think taking that DNA
and,
you know, implementing it within a
Formula 1 team has been, you know,
incredibly effective. And uh what's
enabled us to be dynamic is that we've
had the full support you know of the of
the chairman you know of Dietrich
Matashitz who you has been passionate
about this uh this activity and he's
you know unwaveringly you know backed us
and there were difficult days where
you know things came you came under
scrutiny but he gave the time
um and the stability within and allowed
the stability within the BIS business
for us to really cultivate, you know, a
winning machine and with the key people
in the right in in the right positions.
and uh uh you know he's been phenomenal
in the support that he's shown us and
the and the freedom that he's enabled us
to have to operate effectively,
efficiently, quickly and sharply without
being bogged down by the process of a uh
you know a corporate entity. Um, so
we've kept that agility
and even though the company has grown to
three times the size that uh when when
Red Bull came into the sport is maintain
that racing spirit that that ability to
make quick decisions whether it's on a
driver or sponsor or a uh a member of
staff or a you know whatever it may be.
We've had that dynamic ability to move
and and adapt quickly. It's so
important. I I spend so long, you know,
I spent 10 years working with CEOs and
founders on their marketing and I'd see
time and time again how really the cost
wasn't being wrong, it was being slow.
So it was taking 9 months to find out
you were wrong versus the team over here
that would spend. So if we were pitching
an idea, we pitch it to two companies at
the same time. Say one of them would
take nine months to find out that the
idea was bad.
The other one would take one week to
find out it was bad and they'd be on to
the next one. and that and people don't
think of like the design of the very top
of the organization, the relationship
the CEO has with the chairman and no
like stifling board in the way is such a
huge competitive advantage over time.
Absolutely. And I think you know
recently we've had exactly that dilemma
where you know we had the opportunity to
work you know with an OEM taking a
significant shareholding in the team but
I think it was recognized that hang on
that that DNA will be affected
um if we cannot continue to operate
exactly in the manner that's made us
successful with that ability to make
quickfire decisions um without having to
go through layers and layers of you know
process and and bureaucr democracy.
Quick word from one of our sponsors.
I've got a tip for all of you that will
make your virtual meeting experiences, I
think, 10 times better. As some of you
may know by now, Blue Jeans by Verizon
offers seamless, highquality video
conferencing. But the reason why I use
Blue Jeans versus other video
conferencing tools is because of
immersion. Their tools make you feel
more connected to the employees or
customers you're trying to engage with.
And now they're launching one of their
biggest feature enhancements to impact
virtual events so far called Blue Jean
Studio. I actually used it the other
day. I did a virtual event using the
studio which I think about 700 of you
came to TV level production quality all
done by one person with very little
technical experience on a laptop. So if
you've got an event coming up and you're
thinking about doing it virtually, check
out Blue Jeans Studio Now. Let me know
what you think cuz I genuinely believe I
know this is an advert and I'm supposed
to say this, but I genuinely believe
it's the best tool I've seen for doing
really immersive, simple, but high
quality production virtual events. Quick
one. For many years, people have been
asking for a coffee flavored Hule. And
quite recently, Hu released the iced
coffee caramel flavor of their um ready
to drink Hules. And I've just become
hooked on it over the last couple of
weeks. I've been on a really interesting
journey with Hule, which I've described
and talked about a little bit on this
podcast. I started with the berry ready
to drinks. Then I moved over to the
protein salted caramel because it's 100
calories and it gives you all of your
essential vitamins and minerals but also
gives you the 20 odd grams of protein
you need. And now I'm balanced between
them both. I drink mostly the banana
flavor ready to drink. I've got really
into the iced coffee caramel um flavor
of of ready to drink and now I'm
drinking that as well as the protein.
Make sure you try the new ready to drink
flavors. The the caramel flavor is
amazing. The um new banana flavor as
well is amazing. And obviously, as I
said, the iced coffee caramel flavor has
been a real smash hit. So check it out.
Let me know what you think on social
media. I see all of your tags and
Instagram posts and tweets about Hu.
Back to the podcast. You talked about
innovation being both at the heart of
the Red Bull brand, but also um it being
a big component of what you brought to
Red Bull to make it a winning machine.
How did the Red Bull team innovate
versus other incumbents?
I think we grabbed the regulations. So,
initially it was about building and and
making sure that we got the right tools.
So, from 2005 when Red came into the
sport for the first four years was
about, you know, recruiting Adrian,
getting some other key people around
him, making sure that we got the right
simulation tools and our wind tunnel was
delivering reliable results. And then a
big regulation change came for the 2009
season, which felt like a a clean sheet
of paper for this group to really, you
know, grab hold of. And um it was a big
regulation change at the at the time.
And you know we got it we got it right
or mainly right um because there was
contention with the governing body about
something called a double diffuser which
um certain teams had and others didn't.
But it got caught up in the politics
between the governing body and the
commercial rights holder and the teams
who were all arguing for a bigger share.
We sort of got caught in the crossfire
of that, you know, when it was really
about Ferrari and and the FIA and had
nothing to do with Red Bull, but we come
up with a competitive car. Um, and then
suddenly,
you know, we were able to start
competing and start winning and we were
making mistakes, but we were we were
fast, we were challenging, we were
winning races. and we lost out on that
championship at the end of the year to
Jensen Button and and and Ross Brawn
because we'd had a weak start um due to
these this regulation uh discrepancy. Um
but then from you know 2010 we took that
momentum into that year and we were
still a little rough around the edges
but we managed to you know basically
polish ourselves enough that we came out
with both championships at the end of
2010 11. Then we went on and and was a
totally dominant year and then a big
regulation came for 12. we had to adopt
to that and won it at the final race in
in Brazil against Fernando Alonzo and
then stability into 2013 saw another
dominant year um for the team and then
obviously then it was a complete reset
because when 2014 came along all of the
engine regulations changed to this V6
hybrid and we were completely out of
bed. the engine that we had was nowhere
near the competitiveness of uh certainly
that Mercedes had come up with and
suddenly you go from being serial
winners to turning up at a race and not
having a chance of success and that was
that was tough to keep the hearts and
minds of the people um having been used
to winning to suddenly turning up and
you know if we're lucky we we won three
races that year that were all
opportunistic but you you know, in terms
of competing for a championship, no
chance.
How do you do that? How do you keep
their hearts and minds motivated,
focused?
I think you you you identify again the
area that's that's causing the weakness
and look to address it. Um, and focus on
the bits that you can control. So, the
engine we couldn't control that was from
a third party, you know, supplier. We
could put pressure on them. we could we
could try and uh assist them with tools
that we had, but all we could do is
ensure that we made the best chassis
that we could possibly make that we got
the best drivers and we got the best out
of them. And so, um, you know, races
that weren't sensitive to power, you
know, we could challenge and win those
where it was a Monaco or it was a, you
know, Buddha pest type, you know, uh,
circuit. um and uh then looked to
address the the weakness and it took us
until 2019
and again a big change from uh one
engine supplier to another manufacturer
to Honda to suddenly have that ability
to you know start challenging for for
for victories and start to build a
championship challenge. I didn't realize
that in um in Formula 1 there were so
many changes with engines and
regulations so often.
It's changing all the time. Sometimes
even in the year really,
you know, changes are introduced and uh
you know, we've seen that we've seen
that this year. Um and it's not uncommon
for clarifications or technical
directives sometimes hidden behind the
grounds of safety to be, you know, to be
introduced. And it's about how you adapt
to those changes.
And that's a culture question of
culture, right?
It is is, you know, you can push against
it, but at a certain point, you've got
to accept it and uh uh and and get on
with it and and think, okay, how how can
we turn you, you know, into
fertilizer,
you know, at the end of the day. And and
and you got to embrace you got to
embrace the change and you got to go
with it. When I look at my competition
in all the industries that I'm competing
in professionally, I could tell you the
answer to the question why why I will
win. Like I have my thesis as to why me
and my team will beat them.
Yeah.
Um based on it might be culture, it
might be philosophy, it might be we care
more about this thing and over the long
term that's going to pay off. When you
look at your competition, which has been
Mercedes,
yes,
for in all the press and on on the
racetrack over the last couple of years,
why do you think your team will win?
I think that there's several factors. I
think that, you know, some things
performance is always cyclical and you
Mercedes went through an incredible
winning spree, you know, longer than we
certainly did and at some point that was
always going to come to an end whether
it's through complacency or what
whatever causes that. And I wanted to
make sure that we were the team on the
upward graph to capitalize on uh any
sign of weakness. And I think
you know there was several components.
One of course is the driver. The driver
played a key role, you know, in that in
that Max Fappen, you know, emerging as
this exciting,
determined character. And you will not
meet a more determined personality or
driver with more commitment and and
passion than than Max. and the team just
having this this inner belief and and
again pushing all of the boundaries,
operating at a level that was taking
ourselves out of our comfort zone.
Whether that be well record-breaking pit
stops, aggressive strategies, attacking
strategies, taking calculated risks
um to you know with high risk high
reward and uh with very much an attitude
of we've got nothing to lose. you know,
we've got we've got to throw everything
at this. And I think it just in the end
came down to to desire that there was
more desire. Um, and the way that we
applied ourselves as a team under
massive pressure. Um, we dealt with that
pressure. Yeah. You know, in a in a very
together manner.
How hard do you push people? I know you
said you let them get on with their job
and that they know better than than you
do at what they're there to do, but in
terms of those one-on-one conversations
you're having with those people to get
them to break those records in the pit
stop or to get them to really embody the
culture of Red Bull and want to win,
regardless of whether they've won last
year, regardless of what's been written
about in the press. What are those
conversations and how hard do you do you
have to push?
I think you've always got to encourage
people to get out of their comfort zone.
Um because if you're in your comfort
zone, you're cruising. You've got to
push yourself. Now, I'm not a table
banger or, you know, a haird dryer like
an Alex Ferguson, but it's about getting
people to go that extra go that extra
step to take themselves out of their
comfort zone. Easiest thing in the world
is not to have any change, but you've
got to continually evolve. Um and so
whilst we've had tremendous stability,
the way that the organization has
evolved is even in the last 2 years is
enormous as we've embraced new
challenges of taking on being an engine
manufacturer uh which is something
completely nuts. Why would an energy
drinks subsidiary take on MercedesBenz
and Ferrari and Renault and Honda as a
being an engine manufacturer? But it's
it it takes our own destiny into our own
control and brings everything under one
one roof and becomes completely
integrated. So in many respects it's
totally logical. Um but starting from
scratch is just about attracting again
all the same basics that served us well
on the chassis of getting the right
people, the right tools, the right
structure and having a can do attitude
of yeah, we're going to we're going to
shoot for the stars and maybe we're
going to land on the moon. But you know,
we're not afraid of taking on a
challenge.
Have you got a complacency detector
built into your mind? Can you sense when
you feel like people in teams are
becoming complacent?
You can you can sense it. You can you
can feel it. You know, if I have um
you know there's almost a guilt factor
that you feel that well I don't feel
like I'm busy enough. I need to be
busier. Um and you so you push yourself
and I think in turn you end up you know
pushing other areas of the of the
business and I think COVID was a
a phenomenal challenge.
um that you know I took everybody by
surprise again how do you take on that
challenge and you know we had went from
a culture of having probably about five
people that had the ability to work
remotely because we're paranoid about IP
and information going out of the
business overnight we went to 400 we
didn't even know whether our IT systems
would be able to cope with it and then
had to maintain that culture during this
totally alien process of being locked in
your in your home but and everything
happening on Zoom calls and uh and video
conferencing and having to design a car
remotely.
Um but by keeping that essence of team
and communicating and and talking uh we
managed to keep that embody that sense
of of of team um and uh I think that was
a big factor in why we came up with such
a competitive car in 20 or for the 2021
season because what we'd done through
COVID in keeping that essence of team
together just gave us a better product
for 2021.
You must really obsess about the small
stuff because you know all these
different departments, all these teams,
all it takes is a small pocket of
complacency for the standards to drop a
couple of percent in the car. If one
team doesn't communicate properly or if
they just don't, you know, really push
themselves to find a marginal gain that
can cause like a couple of percent drop
in the performance of the car. That can
lose you a a championship.
You can lose championships as we've
seen.
Yeah.
In seconds.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
After years of work. just a few seconds.
But I think what we've managed to um
develop within the business now is this
this uh again culture of not wanting to
let the side down, not wanting to be the
link in the chain that that that that
breaks. and uh you know whether that's
from
you know van drivers hitting deliveries
of you know to to suppliers to
machinists or designers or uh
technicians at the circuit or or or
mechanics or engineers. um that runs the
whole way through the business that
nobody wants to let the side down. And I
think that uh everybody's got that
vested interest in seeing those cars,
you know, succeed. And when they do, the
sense of pride and fulfillment and of
course you have to celebrate success.
You have to enjoy success because it's
not going to happen every single day.
You're going to lose a lot more races
than you're going to win. So when you
win, embrace it. Enjoy it. Celebrate
that moment, which is what we do as a
team after every single race. If we win
a race, we get everybody together with a
champagne after the race in the race
bays on a Monday uh you know afternoon
to celebrate that success. And if we
haven't won, you know, we we'll talk
about, okay, why didn't we win? What do
we need to do better? Even when we won
and we've celebrated, we say, okay, how
can we still be better? How can we
improve, you know, on this? and and
getting everybody to share that moment,
to share in that success is something
that's so so important. Um because then
everybody collectively feels it.
After you won the title in 2021,
how did it feel?
2021 for me personally was a hugely
challenging year because there was the
pressure of everything going on track.
Um
there was an awful lot going on on off
track as well as we're building this
engine business and so you're recruiting
from your rival teams and because
Mercedes being UK based there was a lot
of people coming out of Mercedes that
heightened the pressure. There was then
a big PR uh battle as well. So you're in
front of the cameras every week. You're
having to defend your position or defend
your driver and and it was very
concerted in in all direction. And you
could feel the pressure and building and
building. It was like a heavyweight bout
from round one in Bahrain through 22
rounds to when we got it to to Abu
Dhabi. And
we went into Abu Dhabi equal on points
with Max being a head virtue of um uh
race victories. Mercedes had gone there
with the barristers because they were
convinced that Max was just going to
drive into um Lewis I think on the first
lap and uh they'd be arguing it out uh
in the in in the stewards but you know
we qualified on on pole and then for the
majority of that race um we felt that
decisions went AC against us at the
beginning of the race because Max had
made a pass and Lewis had cut the
chicane but he wasn't told to give the
position back and everything we tried in
that case, it felt like it was slipping
away. And so what was going through my
mind was like, how am I going to pick
the guys up, you know, after what am I
going to say to Max? How, you know,
after such an intense season like this?
Um, you know, what am I going to going
to say to them? And then suddenly it
just shows that
you anything can happen in life. And
suddenly a a window of opportunity
presented itself with um one of the back
markers crashing.
Uh and you know we had to be on our
feet. We took the risk. We made the pit
stop. We bolted on a new set of tires
and Mercedes went defensive and
conservative
and that gave us a window of opportunity
to challenge for one racing lap. Um, and
with a fresh set of tires and Max
Vstappen in your car, he was going to go
for it. And so when he pulled the move
off at a corner that we completely
unexpected, I think Lewis totally
unexpected it because he left the door
open there trying to get a good exit
onto the onto the straight.
It was like, "Oh my god." And then you
they're going down the straight. They're
side by side and you know they get to
the chicane and it's he went in a little
bit deep and you know the strength of
Mercedes engine on the straight line.
you've got to get the exit onto the next
straight and then they're side by side
and then he managed to keep and protect
the the the inside line into the next
left hand and you know at that point
it's done bar
you know something breaking on the car
and then the feeling of of just
everything being lifted
uh and to see him after seven long years
of
we've been nowhere we hadn't even been
able to challenge them and then suddenly
to see everything culminate in seeing
your driver and car and team cross the
check of lap flag to become the world
champion. That that was that was just it
was very emotional and you just felt all
this pressure suddenly lift from you.
Was that the greatest professional
moment of your career today?
Undoubtedly. I mean the first time I won
it uh you I was 35 or something like
that and that was on the last race in
Abu Dhabi against the odds with
Sebastian Battle. So that was a unique
feeling and it was one of the rare races
that Dietri Matitz would uh that
actually came to. So for him to be there
was very special and um that you know
that was a massive moment for the whole
for the whole company for the whole
business. Uh but I think having been
through the tough times during that
period of not just domination,
annihilation by one of your opponents,
um to never lose sight of what the end
goal was and to fulfill that and to win
it on the last lap. I mean, you you
couldn't have written it. Nobody would
have believed it. If somebody came up
with a script and said, "That's the way
this season's going to pan out." Nobody
would have uh you know, believed it. Um,
so for sure it was,
you know, probably the the the biggest
moment of my career so far.
And the whole world was watching. I
think if people weren't into the F1,
someone sent them a text and told them
to turn the TV on at that point. I
remember that's certainly what happened
with me. I remember getting many
messages and in some of our sports chats
on WhatsApp going, "Oh my god, oh my
god, oh, so you turn on the TV and
you're watching this last lap and it's
just the most crazy.
It was insane." and and of course like
you know it was one of the most I think
it was the most singly viewed piece of
sport
um certainly last year if not in the
last 5 years and there'll probably never
be a Formula 1 championship like it in
the next 20 years
um it was so epic and of course sport is
polarizing so you know on the one hand
you've got
you know the Vstafen fans going bananas
thinking it was retribution for what had
happened early in the year. You've got
the the Hamilton fans thinking that, you
know, the race had been interfered with
and it was unfair. Um, and then you've
got the neutrals that had just witnessed
the most phenomenal race between two
magnificent drivers and teams operating
at the at the top of their game. And so
for the sport,
you know, it was it was fantastic
because suddenly again we're just
engaging with a whole new audience and
wherever we go in the world now, you
know, Formula 1 is having its moment in
the spotlight. It is, you know, it is
sold out and the demand for Formula 1 is
just huge wherever we go. If I had a
button on the desk now and the button
was a eraser button and it would erase
Mercedes as a team, it just erased the
whole team. Would you press it?
No, because it's enjoyable,
you know, racing against a team of their
quality because I mean they raised the
stakes and they raised the bar and then
we had to raise it higher to beat them.
And so the uh the satisfaction that that
gives you
um is immense. And I think what you know
what we're really proud of this year is
that we put everything into last year
even at the expense of this year because
again another massive regulation change
coming into this year the biggest in the
last 40 years. with it, console
ourselves to say, look, we'll put more
time into 2021 and if that costs us a
slower start to 22,
we'll take that if we can come away with
a trophy. Um, we managed to come away
with the trophy, but we also managed to
start the season with a competitive car
compared to all of the other teams that
had, you know, we were sure the last
team to swap over onto the 22 car, but
such was the determination and and the
motivation within the within the
business. Uh, and the talent, the car
that's been delivered for the drivers
this year has been again phenomenal.
Where does your motivation come from?
You've won. You've won. You've won.
You've gone through a period of, you
know, a battle with Mercedes, you've won
again. What is driving you now?
For me, um,
you there's no better feeling than
winning. And when you've won, you want
to win it again and you want to win it
again. But for me, the next challenge as
well is really the next chapter for the
company where not only as a chassis
manufacturer, but as an engine
manufacturer, taking a business from
scratch. Build that. We built a factory
in 55 weeks. We designed and fired up an
engine within 12 months. These are
ridiculous time scales that we're
operating to. But again, it just
typifies the the the can do culture that
you know that there is within the
business. And so for sure, the next
challenge for us is as a as a as an
engine and power unit manufacturer to
take on some of these iconic brands.
um you know come 2026 when a Red Bull
car pulls out of the garage with a Red
Bull engine powering it going up against
the Ferraris and Mercedes and Audi's at
the time and I thought it's he's going
to be phenomenal
naivity you became a principal at a very
young age
a lot of incumbents were double your age
a lot of you know the it was quite a an
older business with legacy systems and
ways of doing things
people often view naivity and youth as a
disadvantage. How was it? How was your
naivity an advantage to you in
hindsight?
I turned it to an advantage because I
think people underestimate youth. Um,
and for me, age was never a barrier. It
was it was just a number and it's how
you apply yourself. So, when I came into
the sport, I was the youngest team
principal in Formula 1. I still am to
this day, ironically.
Really?
Yeah. Jesus.
After 18 years. Wow. Um, but you know,
there were guys that have been in sport
icons of the sport, you know, whether it
was a Bernie Eckleston's or Ron Dennis
or Flavio Bri or Jean Todd running
Ferrari and even Eddie Jordan was still
around with with Jordan uh Grand Prix at
the time and all, you know, very
entrepreneurial people but all very
different but very single-minded
and again it's how you you conduct
yourself and um I didn't go into you
know, into that forum banging tables or
anything like that. I I looked, I
listened and I I would say something
when I felt I had something to say. Um,
and and you learn as well, you know, you
learn from a way that,
you know, Ron Dennis conducts himself
versus a Flavia Britori versus a Frank
Williams or, you know, Bernie Eckleston.
uh again as a complete ring master. How
he operated the business was you know
was a phenomenal education you know for
me and what you saw in each one of those
people
it just presented itself in a very
different way way was this ruthless
competitiveness.
When you have a ruthless competitiveness
you're obsessed. You want to win. You're
traveling six months a year to compete
and to win. You're consumed in these
external battles with the media and on
the track and off the track and with
this team and Mercedes and whatever
else. How do you then be a husband and a
father? Do
you know that is the one thing that
keeps you grounded. Um and you I'm very
fortunate. I've got a a really uh
supportive wife um who's obviously
experienced high pressure situations
herself of having to deliver and knowing
what the scrutiny of uh
Jerry, you know, media operated world is
like. So, so she, you know, she's been
tremendously um you know, supportive.
Um, and you know, I have a you know, uh,
three children. Um, and they're they're
what keep you grounded. Um, you know,
they don't care what you do as a job at
at the end of the day. You know, my um
8-year-old daughter is obsessed with
horses at the moment. My 5-year-old boy
is just wanting to uh, you know, make
Lego and F-16 fighter planes. Um, and
uh, you my 16-year-old daughter suddenly
she now understands what I do and I've
actually in her eyes almost become cool.
Um, so but you know, family is what
keeps you keeps you grounded and it
keeps you Formula 1 is a very glamorous
world from the outside looking in. It
can be a lonely place at at times. Um,
but at the end of the day, we're not
saving lives. Um, you know, it's an
entertainment. is a sport and what
really matters you know is family at the
end of the day and uh and that I think
makes it more precious in that you don't
take it for granted. So the time that I
do get with a family I think it's very
important to be present and and you know
not to take it for advantage. So, uh,
you know, I'll make sure that that I
take, you know, the little one to to
school or pick my daughter up from
school on a, uh, on a Friday cuz I want
I want to be there. I don't want to be
an absent, uh, father cuz I'll never get
that time time back. So, and that then
is being disciplined
with the management of your own time
because otherwise, you know, your
phone's, you know, always next to you.
It can take, you know, Formula 1 can
take over your life if you're not
disciplined in in uh in your own
approach.
Are you content?
Am I content? I am very content in so
many ways, but I'm still extremely
hungry. Um
and you know, when is enough enough? It
doesn't feel like it's enough at the
moment.
It never will be. And uh I think that
drives you, you know, some people are
happy to cruise, others want to keep
want to keep pushing. And and
you know, I'm I feel like I've only just
got going.
Do you ever think you will it will ever
be enough?
uh who know the problem you know that
that you that certainly happens in in in
this industry and I guess is the same in
in others is that time moves so quickly
you never get five minutes to reflect
and look back you're always looking
forward you know this championship the
chapter will close we'll enjoy it for
you know a couple of evenings and then
it's all about the next one and so you
never get time to reflect so actually
sitting here talking about some of the
subject in the past you you start to
think to think back and I think it's
it's only when you get to the end of the
journey that then you know then uh you
get time to reflect and I think when I
get to the end of my journey I will go
away and do something completely
different. I'll be a sheep farmer or
something like that but uh um
yeah I think uh but I don't see that in
in sight at the moment.
Could you ever imagine there being an
end to your journey? Is that something
you can foresee now? Could you imagine
getting to the day where you think, do
you know what? Pina colada is for me. Do
you know what? I I I go to work.
Um,
and every day I enjoy what I do. Um, I
I'm grateful that I'm paid to do a job
that actually I do it for free because,
you know, you enjoy it, you love it. I
enjoy working with the people. I enjoy
the sport. I enjoy the competition.
uh I'd probably be completely unemploy
employable in another uh form of of
life. And I think if you got a passion
for something that you do, you do it
that much better. Um and
yeah, money at the end of the day is is
just a valuation of success. Um it
shouldn't be the reason that you go to
work. Um and uh for me um
uh you know while I have that drive
while I have that enjoyment on the bad
days as well as the as well as the good
days that's what you know motivates me
and I think maybe there'll be a day one
day that you know I've had enough but I
I can't see or envisionage that.
Have you ever been anxious?
All that press scrutiny
all the pressure you described. Have you
ever had moments of anxiety? I think
about 10 years ago uh when we were in
the height of a championship battle um
back in 2012
I can remember uh feeling that that
uh you know my breathing you know I
became self-conscious of my own
breathing and then when you start
thinking about your breathing
you you you start overinking things and
and for me as an an I think what what is
going you know have I had too much
coffee. Did I have a Red Bull or too
many Red Bulls, you know, this morning
or whatever, and I couldn't identify,
you know, what it was. Um, and uh it was
only um uh you know, when I spoke to the
the team physio, I said, "Look, I'm just
conscious of my breathing and it's made
me feel a bit dizzy and I think I've had
too much coffee and this that and the
other." He said, 'Well, it's probably a
bit of anxiety, you know, and
and so I'd never, you know, I thought
that that was a form of of weakness. M
um and and then I read about it and I
spoke to a couple of people about it and
you know you then learn to control your
you know your breathing and and and so
on and uh and and I could then recognize
if I felt during that period
this feeling start to come on
you know just to to to to you know to
breathe breathe normally, to not take
short breaths, but to be taking, you
know, deep breaths and and so on. And it
sort of crept up on me without,
you know, recognizing it.
Same.
And, uh, yeah, it's not so it's not it
it's not a weakness. It's just your body
telling you that, you know, there's a
lot going on here. Um, and it's it's
it's way of protesting. Um, and that's
what what was happening to me at at that
time. and I recognized it and managed
to, you know, to to address it. And um
there's so many ways whether it's
meditation or just exercise or or as I
say breathing that uh um and and and
yeah, I was able to then if ever I got
those symptoms, I was able to to
recognize it and say, "Okay, hello. I
know who you are.
You know, I can deal with you."
Did you ever seek out therapy? Did you
ever go get a therapist? something
I didn't I mean my wife is pretty
together with all these things and um
she she'd experienced the same thing
whether it was
you before a show or or you know some of
the stuff they did was insane
crazy
and um and so you know she she helped me
uh you know with it um and to you know
to yeah you know to em embrace it to
recognize it to sort out your breathing
I tried meditating. I absolutely got
I can you know
um and I admire her because she has the
discipline to do that every you know
every day. Uh I just haven't got my mind
is too is too active. Um but uh you know
just definitely
um
learning to to deal with it and and it
you know it passed. It was it was with
me for a couple of months and and and it
passed and I think it was just my body
saying, "Okay, stress overload here.
Yeah, give me a break."
It's what everyone's body seems to do.
Gary Neville said to me when he was sat
here that he'd been going at such a pace
for so long that one day after reporting
on I think it was the Arsenal game. He's
in the commentary box and he just
collapses. Yeah.
He goes to the doctors, the doctor says,
"Listen, Gary, you're going too fast.
You've been doing it for too long. You
need to slow down."
He hasn't.
But it's funny how the body will tell
you before you admit it to yourself.
100% 100%.
My last question to you before I just
ask you this one in the book is on a
personal level, what are you working on?
I understand your professional
ambitions. It's very clear, but on a
personal level, when you think about
what you want to improve about yourself
with your in your personal situation,
what is what is that?
I think it's just trying to be
um
you know, the best father that you can
be, the best husband that you can be.
Um, I think that,
you know, we're all aware of our own
mortality, particularly with events
like, you know, who thought the queen
was going to, you know, going to die
with that. And again, and that just
brings it all home to you that, you
know, we're we're on this planet for
such a short period of time to,
you know, do as much as you can with the
time that we that that we have here and
to uh ensure that you make time
Um because we're all, you know,
particularly informal one, you're
chasing time all the time. Your life is
dictated by the by the stopwatch. But
it's important to make time um to be
able to have,
you know, that that that uh incredibly
important family time. Um and uh and
yeah, just to be able to to to chill out
uh which sometimes is difficult to to be
able to relax is sometimes a tough thing
to do, especially if you're working at a
you know, on a high tempo, but um uh you
know, as in work, you can always you can
always be better. You can always do
better.
Eddie Han said that to me obviously his
book is I know you've spoken to him, but
his book is called Relentless. Yeah,
he is someone that I don't think is
willing to relax at any cost. And I hear
that quite often. We have a tradition
here where the last guest asks a
question for the next guest. They don't
know who they're writing it for.
Right.
And the question that's been written for
you is quite an interesting one. I don't
get to see it until I open this book,
but the question that's been written for
you is,
this can be taken in many ways.
Okay.
How will you control your own greed?
How will I control my own greed? Um,
I think greed is
greed and jealousy are two very
destructive
components.
Um, and I think
I've never been a greedy person, but I
think
you're greedy for titles.
Greedy for titles. um in that respect,
but I think
you need to be magnanimous as well. And
I think that if you're fortunate enough
to um
you know achieve success, the most
gratifying thing to be able to do is to
do something good with it, to empower
something either, whether it be through
charity work or or just making a
difference. making a difference for for
good because it's not just about the
trophies and the uh and the plaudit.
It's sometimes about doing something
good as well.
Do you spend enough time thinking about
that?
Um
I don't. I'm going to I'm going to admit
I don't.
You can always do more. You can always
do more. And
when you do something good and and that
can be more rewarding than winning a
race and that the feeling that gives you
think actually I should actually do do
more. There's there's almost a bit of a
bias with the mind when you when you
feel like you're constantly running to
keep things moving and throwing coal in
the engine that you think I'll do that
thing when I'll be the philanthropist
when
I remember one day sitting here with
someone who said the correct approach
Steve is to make sure you're
you don't cut down the forest and then
donate to the bees.
You're learning to do both at the same
time effectively.
Absolutely.
Thank you so much for your time. um
incredibly inspiring individual that's
reached the very peak of their powers.
And there's very few people I can speak
to in this country and in the world that
have managed to stay at the top of their
game championship after championship
whether they win or whether they don't
win. And re that reinvention and what
sits behind that in terms of team and
culture and philosophy and optimism and
attitude is so fascinating to me because
winning is one thing but continuing to
win with new people as the world is
changing as regulations are changing
around you is a completely different
task especially in such a technical
industry like yours where there's so
many components that you have to leave
to trust. So, it's so inspiring to read
your story. Um, and it's so wonderful to
see F1 becoming more and more popular in
culture because there's so much about it
that um I think we teaches us lessons
about life and teamwork and all of these
really important fundamentals. Um, and
yeah, it's it's an honor to meet you as
well because from an entrepreneurial
business standpoint, you're an
inspiration to me for so many reasons.
So, thank you for the conversation
today. Thank you for being so honest and
open and I appreciate your time.
No, thank you very much. I've enjoyed
it.
Quick one. As you might know, Crafted
are one of the sponsors of this podcast
and they make really meaningful pieces
of jewelry. This lion piece they've
made, I wear all the time along with the
little time piece, the sand timer that I
wear often. And the lion piece, you
might have seen Conor McGregor has a
similar piece which was custom made for
him. For me, it represents courage. And
if you walk through my house, the house
that I'm in right now, if you walk six
feet in that direction, you'll see a
huge lion portrait. If you go upstairs,
you'll see a lion portrait. If you look
behind me on the shelf near the top
there, you'll see a lion as well. The
reason my house and my life is
surrounded by lions is because they
represent courage, calmness, and that
tenacity that I've applied to my
business success, to my professional
life, and to everything in between. For
me, the lion has always been an animal
that can be almost a bit of a
contradiction. They are so loving and so
caring of their own and can be powerful
and courageous when necessary in order
to achieve what they want to achieve.
So, if you like me are a big fan of
courage, bravery, ambition while also
being calm and composed, check out this
line piece and let me know if you get
it.
[Music]